Hello! This is the document where I explain all the technical aspects of my code!

My main goal of this project was to take a DNA sequence that the user of my web application inputted, and I wanted to output a protein, also known as a chain of amino acids. I received the DNA sequence from the user input using the "POST" method and I was able to use the request.form.get() function to do so. My first job was to prevent users from all uppercase letters. Also, since sometimes copying and pasting a long DNA sequence may contain a space here or there, I used the .replace() function to replace the empty space with no space. I also created a list of prohibited letters, which was every letter other than "GCAT." After standardizing the user input, I iterated through the inputted string, and I checked if there were no input at all, any prohibited letters, or any non-alphabetical characters. If so, I returned an error message that says, "Please input a valid DNA sequence!"

If the user did input a valid sequence, I used the .replace() function to change the DNA nucleotides to its RNA counterparts (A to U, T to A, G to C, C to G). One problem that I ran into was when I tried to switch G to C and C to G. What the program would do is change every single C or G to G because every time the replace function is called, it iterates through the string from the start. As a result, it kept switching both C's and G's into G's. To solve this issue, I first replaced G with a "Temp," so that only the original C's will be replaced with G's. Then, I was able to replace the Temp with C to complete the trasciption of DNA to mRNA.

The next goal was the translate the mRNA to amino acids. I looked up a codon chart on google and created a dictionary of every possible codon and its respective amino acid. The keys were the codons, and the values were the amino acids in the form "(aminoacid) - ." This format was to make the cumulation of amino acids look like a chain in the web page. For the coding of this translation, I initialized a string variable called "protein." Then, I had to look for the start codon "AUG." If the first three nucleotides were not AUG, I would erase the first letter of the copy rna that I created, "sample_rna," and look for the start codon again without the first letter. This would repeat until the start codon was found, but if there were no AUG throughout the entire sequence, I would render the error.html template with the saying "There is no indication of a start codon!"

Once the start codon is found, the program would now iterate through the entire string, looking at 3 nucleotides at a time. Every 3 nucleotides corresponds to a key, which contains an amino acid as its value. Once it finds the key and recognizes the corresponding amino acid, it will add the amino acid onto the initialized string variable, "protein." This will repeat over and over again until it reaches a STOP codon, which is also in the codon_chart dictionary. When it does reac ha STOP codon, it breaks out of the loops. Now, I am left with a protein sequence in the form of a string, and I rendered the template with the rna and the protein varibles to use in the result.html page.

Talking more about the html and css aspects of my web application. I created a very simple index.html page with a form and a picture explaining what my program does. the result.html page allows me to visually output the rna and the protein variables that the computer has found using the user input. I also put a diagram of all the different amino acids and its features as a reference for the users. The error.html page allows for the error message to be displayed to the user. I did not want to create multiple error pages for different types of error, so I used a {{ error }} variable, which allowed me the alter the error message as desired. The styles.css file mostly contains font/stylistic elements, but one thing I would like to mention is the .container styling. I realized that trying to output a long mRNA sequence with no spaces extends the page to the side infinitely. As a result, I used the "word-wrap: break-word" feature to solve this issue.

Thank you so much for taking the time to read the technical aspects of my project!